at all
vandalism of lecture we go into a fine
restaurant the waiter talks about the
signature dishes and this is one of our
signature dishes the Goldman School is
very proud of the Roda Goldman lecture
series which we started a number of
years ago with the noted cardiologist
Michael DeBakey and have followed up
with major events concerning Medicare
the marriage and divorce of UCSF and
Stanford Medical School problems of food
and obesity communicable diseases and
managed care now why are we doing this
we're doing this because the Goldman
School and the university as a community
is interested in teaching research and
public outreach to stimulate debate on
the most pressing contemporary issues of
our time our school has been a lucky
recipient of major support from the
Richard and Rhoda Goldman fund so let me
say a word about that fund and about
Richard and Rhoda Goldman which one
wrote of Goldman above graduates of this
university married after the second
world war and started the Richard and
Rhoda Goldman fund in 1951 and they have
supported an extraordinary number of
admirable organizations institutions and
activities Rhoda Goldman herself was
involved in a large number of
environmental and also health-related
activities she was the president of the
board of directors of the Mount Zion
Hospital and Medical Center she was a
chairwoman of then mayor dianne
feinstein's committee to erect a
memorial for six million victims
the Holocaust she was a key figure in
she co-founded in San Francisco reached
for recovery program in the late 60s an
organization that offers peer-to-peer
counseling and support for women after
their surgery for breast cancer and she
became a chairperson of the Stern Grove
festival association that oversees these
wonderful summertime cultural
performances in San Francisco an
activity that has carried on today by
Richard and rotas son Doug also a Cal
grad was here tonight the Goldman fund
supported and does support not only an
assortment of activities but really
became world famous for all its
establishment of the Goldman
environmental prize which was started in
1990 by Richard and Rhoda Goldman and
even if you haven't been paying too much
attention you must have realized that
just recently one of the early
recipients of the Richard Umberto
Goldman environmental prize winegar we
met I was just awarded the Nobel Peace
Prize
just this past fall she's the first
woman from Africa ever to receive this
prize and just a wonderful individual
for her work at environmental activism
so you're really talking about two
people Richard in rota who've been
actively involved in making the lives of
all of us better for more than 50 years
and I think they deserve a round of
applause
welcome everybody congratulations
unwilling to risk a little happiness to
be here tonight I'm just going to take a
few moments to give you a few
reflections on Robert F Kennedy jr. I've
known him for many years and I regret
that I didn't know his father and for
all those that knew them both they tell
me he is the spitting image as you will
see tonight
Bobby's been supportive our prize from
the very beginning in fact we were in
New York with the winners someone 15
plus years ago and he spoke to the group
on that occasion and when other people
who did - told him that you can judge
for yourselves but if I loved any
younger person there was a presidential
caliber he's number one on my list I'm
not I'm not promoting anything I'm just
saying he has
I'm just letting you know that I think
he has those qualifications if you've
been following the news about him and he
did something quite amazing recently he
turned down the opportunity to run for
attorney general of the state of New
York because he wants to be with his
family of six children during their
youth and it's a very commendable
position and I think we should all
recognize it I know that as we're
meeting tonight the road was smiling
because she knew Bobby she respected him
and it's a wonderful choice of the
school to have him speak tonight thank
you very much
thank you Richard it's now my very
special pleasure to introduce Robert
Kennedy jr. it's actually the second
time within this past year that I've had
the pleasure of introducing him last
time was in my role as president of
University of Toronto in fact if I
change presidencies often enough I may
kittinger's him every year and I can
tell you that in Canada because of
heroic work he did in helping Canadian
indigenous people negotiate treaties
protecting their traditional homelands
that he's absolutely the national hero
in Canada perhaps the most admired
American in Canada but frankly in the
current climate perhaps the only
American
I've got a hard time last time when I
introduced Al Gore her being too
partisan so I'm gonna try and control
myself now a long time defender of the
environment mr. Kennedy was named one of
Time Magazine's heroes for the planet in
quotation marks for helping Riverkeeper
fight to restore the Hudson River this
group's achievement helped create more
than 125 Waterkeeper organizations
across the globe mr. Kennedy is a senior
attorney with the National Natural
Resources Defense Council President of
the Waterkeeper Alliance grassroots
organization and chief prosecuting
attorney for the Hudson River keeper
group his work on environmental issues
across America and part of what I
mentioned already he's assisted several
indigenous peoples in Latin America and
Canada helping them negotiate treaties
protecting their traditional homelands
mr. Kennedy has published several books
including the New York Times best seller
crimes against nature which was
published in 2004 and the river keepers
published in 1997 with John Cronin
please welcome Robert Kennedy Jr
I do
Thank You Chancellor Berg now that those
wonderful words I want to start by
apologizing for my voice which I hope
will warm up as we as we proceed to say
how honored I am to to be here at the
Goldman School and at Berkeley and also
by the presence of one of my heroes
Robert Reich's is the former Secretary
of Labor
and of course Richard Goldman and
i-i-i-i-i I'm very very flattered by
that endorsement from mr. Goldman
particularly since he's a lifelong
Republican and uh but he's the good kind
of Republican before they before they
took the conserve out of conservativism
and you know Richard dick Goldman is one
of my heroes and I've always said this
about him because that's so ironic given
his background but he was really one of
the first people to recognize that that
environmental issues are always human
rights issues they are always in that
bit though and that they're the best
measure of how a democracy is
functioning of the success of democracy
is how it distributes the goods the land
whether it maintains the public Commons
the public trust assets in the hands of
all the people or whether it allows
those things to be concentrated and
stolen from the people by large
aggregations of wealth and power and
that's really all that environmental
issues are about it's a struggle for
democracy to maintain the ownership of
the public trust in the hands of the
people versus letting it to accrue to
corporate power and he was and you know
of course people are ground up and spit
out by by powerful interests in that
process people who stand up for those
rights and Richard Goldman was the first
guy to really recognize that and his
prize as such international prestige
it's known as the Nobel Prize of of the
environment but it's really you know the
Nobel Prize should be called the Goldman
prize of everything else because I've
what he does is so important and I think
people are beginning more and more to
recognize that and Chancellor Burke know
I mentioned my book and you know the
book is is about it's not really about
the environment it's about it's about
the the corrosive impact of excessive
corporate power on American democracy
and that's really what I'm going to talk
about tonight and it's not it's not
about a Democrat attacking a Republican
it
what I would say is nonpartisan because
I although I attack President Bush
because he's got a very bad record on
the environment I'm not attacking him
because he's a Republican and I've
supported Republicans all over the
country I've been I have been
disciplined over 20 years as an
environmental advocate about being
nonpartisan and bipartisan and my
approach to these issues I don't think
there's any such thing as Republican
children or Democratic children I think
the worst thing that can happen in the
environment is it becomes the province
of a single political party but you
can't talk honestly about the
environment today in any context without
speaking critically of this
administration this is the worst
environmental president that we've had
in American history if you look at NRDC
s website you will see over 400 major
environmental rollbacks that have been
promoted or implemented by this
administration over the last four years
as part of a deliberate concerted effort
to eviscerate 30 years of environmental
law it's a stealth attack the
administration knowing that 81% of
Republicans want strong according the
Gallup poll on stronger environmental
laws and want them in strictly enforced
the the White House has used all kinds
of mechanisms to mask this radical
agenda from the American people by
including Orwellian rhetoric when they
want to destroy the forests they call it
the healthy forest act and they want to
store the air they called the clear
skies bill but most insidiously they
have put polluters in charge of all the
agencies that are supposed to protect
Americans from pollution the head of the
Forest Service is a timber industry
lobbyist mark Wray probably the most
rapacious in history the head of of
public lands is a mining industry
lobbyist Stephen grouse who believes
that public lands are unconstitutional
the head of the air division at EPA his
utility lobbyists Jeffrey homestead
who's represented nothing but the worst
air polluters in America President Bush
appointed to run Superfund a woman whose
last job was advising corporate
polluters how to evade Superfund he
played a second command of EPA a
Monsanto lobbies and if you look
throughout all the departments of
government Department of Agriculture
Department of Energy Department of
Interior a PA
the relevant divisions the Justice
Department you'll see the same thing
it's the lobbyists for the regulated
industries for the polluters who are now
running the agencies that are supposed
to protect Americans from pollution and
there's nothing wrong with bringing
bring business people into government
it's a good thing if the objective is to
recruit competence and expertise but in
all of these cases I show in my book
these individuals have not entered
government service to serve the public
interest but rather specifically to
subvert the very laws that they're now
charged with enforcing and as a result
of their actions this administration's
actions there has been a tremendous
Dimmu nishan in quality of life in this
country over the last four years
Americans don't know about it because of
the negligence and the indolence and the
banality of the American press which has
totally let down them of the American
people and let down our democracy over
the past have several years
and there's a there's a lot of reasons
for that woody and I actually talked
about that I did I I devote a chapter in
my book to why the press has failed the
American people but they even the
newspapers from which you can still
glean some information and under this
administration it becomes stenographers
for the White House the the New York
Times The Washington Post have had to
apologize for the role
throwing to ask the tough questions
during the roll up to the Iraq war but
nobody's apologized yet from a failure
to cover these environmental issues that
are being absolutely this this
government has mounted a jihad against
the American environment and it's not
being covered by the newspapers and the
broadcast press is absolutely negligent
are they first of all most of it is
controlled by right-wing media the cable
TV and the talk radio and then the
traditional corporate owned broadcasters
as CNN NBC ABC and CBS since because of
the abolishment of the Fairness Doctrine
by Ronald Reagan in 1988 no longer have
any obligation to serve the public
interest so their only obligation today
is their shareholders they no longer
have to they used to be under a legal
obligation to inform the public about
issues public issues of important of a
public import they no longer have that
obligation and because of that you have
yet that the news departments have
become corporate profit centers their
only obligation is to their shareholders
and they fulfill that obligation by
increasing viewership and selling more
advertising revenue how do you do that
how do you increase viewership not by
informing the public but by entertaining
them and they do that you know by
appealing to the lowest common
denominator which is the prurient
interest that all of us have in the
reptilian core of our brain for sex and
celebrity gossip and and so they give us
Laci Peterson and Michael Jackson and
Kobe Bryant and today as a result we are
the best entertained at least informed
people on the face of the earth and
and the issues that are really impacting
our lives where we're blissfully
ignorant of the connection you know when
people see an asthmatic kid breathing
for air they don't make the connection
with this White House's policies and the
money that they took from corporate
polluters all right and I'll give you a
couple of examples about the profound
immune ition in quality of life in this
country among millions and million most
Americans as a result direct result and
I just use one industry and they in my
book I talk about all of these different
industries you know corporate
agriculture Indian daschle meat farming
I are the nuclear power chemical oil
industry that have a chokehold on this
administration on Congress today and
that are altering these policies to the
great detriment of the American public
to benefit their own corporate prop
pocketbooks I'll just give a couple
examples just from one industry which is
a coal burning power plants I have three
sons who have asthma learned out of
every four black children our cities now
has asthma we don't know why we're
having this epidemic of pediatric asthma
which has quintupled in the last decades
and doubled again over the last five
years
whether it's hormones in our food or
pesticides or something is making our
children come out of their mothers wombs
with their immune systems haywire and
with food allergies and asthma which are
connected but we do know that asthma
attacks are triggered primarily by bad
air ozone and particulates and we know
that the principal source of those
materials in our atmosphere are 1,100
coal burning power plants who are
burning coal illegally it's been illegal
for 15 years they were supposed to have
cleaned up many of them did 1,100 of
them did not the Clinton administration
was prosecuting the worst seventy five
of those plans but this industry is an
industry that gave 48 million dollars to
this President to the Republican Party
during the 2000 cycle and have given 58
million dollars since and one of the
first things that the Bush
administration did when I took power was
to row to the Justice Department and EPA
to drop all those lawsuits the top three
enforcers at EPA Sir Laurence Bruce
bought kite and Erich Schaefer all
resigned their jobs and produce and
these are people who had been there for
decades
the Reagan administration Bush
administration and the chief enforcer of
the for those cases and the Justice
Department said that this had never
happened before in American history or a
presidential candidate takes money from
from criminals targeted for indictment
and then or already indicted and then
orders those indictments that cases
dropped investigations dropped when he
achieves office and you remember how you
know indignant the national press Scott
when Bill Clinton pardoned mark rich
during his last days as presidency but
mark Critch never killed anybody and
according to EPA you can go to their
website today those plants killed they
get that single decision the equipment
the criminal discharges just from those
plants killer 18,000 Americans every
single year
six times the number of people that were
killed in the World Trade Center attack
every single year this should be on the
headlines of every paper in this country
every single day but the press has
ignored the issue a few weeks ago the
EPA announced that in 19 states it is
now unsafe to eat any freshwater fish in
the state because of mercury
contamination the mercury is coming from
those same largely from those same 1,100
coal burning power plants in 48 states
at least some of the fish or most of
them are now unsafe to eat for mercury
in fact the only two states in which all
the fish are still safe to eat are
Alaska and Wyoming where the
republican-controlled legislatures have
refused to appropriate the money to test
the fish in all the other states in all
the other states at least some most or
all of the fish are now on safety from
mercury contamination we know a lot
about mercury we didn't know ten years
ago we know for example that one out of
every six American women now has so much
mercury in her womb that her children
are at risk for a grim inventory of
diseases autism blindness mental
retardation heart liver and kidney
disease I have so much mercury in my
body I got my levels tested recently and
my levels are double the levels that are
considered safe I was told just from
eating fish I was told by dr. David
Carpenter who's one
national authorities on mercury
contamination that a woman with my
levels of mercury in her blood
we'd have children with cognitive
impairment I said don't you mean might
have and he said no the science is very
certain today her children would have
cognitive impairment brain damage
probably he estimated not a permanent IQ
loss and those children of five to seven
points today there are six hundred and
thirty thousand children born in America
every single year who've been exposed to
dangerous levels of mercury in their
mothers wombs the Clinton administration
recognizing the gravity of this national
health epidemic reclassified mercury as
a hazardous pollutants under the Clean
Air Act that triggered a requirement
that all of those companies remove 90%
of the mercury within three and a half
years it would have caused them less
than 1% of plant revenue i and there
were four core companies technology
companies that were out there trying to
sell them the technology that is used
already in Massachusetts in all over
Europe and all over the world but this
is the same industry that donated over a
hundred million dollars to this White
House and although it would have been a
great deal for the American people it
was still billions of dollars for the
industry and a few weeks ago the White
House announced that it was scrapping
the clinton-era regs and substituting
instead rules that were written by
utility industry lobbyists that will
require the industry to never have to
clean up the mercury the new regs say on
their face but the mercury will have to
be cleaned up so only 70% of it within
15 years which by itself is outrageous
but in fact the utility lobbyists who
wrote these regs will have so many
loopholes into their language that
effectively the utilities will be able
to challenge it forever and will never
ever have to remove that mercury the law
firm incidentally that wrote those new
regulations is a law firm and most of
you understand that in our government
government attorneys in artful form of
democracy it's usually government
attorneys and scientists who write our
new regulations not private attorneys
and lobbyists for industry but this
administration has invited industry
lobbyists into the corridors of
government to rewrite regulations that
affect them and in this case these
regulations were written
by the law firm of Latham & Watkins
which is one of the primary bottom
feeder utility eye industry lobbyists
and that and the chief lobbyist former
chief lobbyist for that law firm is an
attorney called Jeffrey homestead who is
now the head of the air division at EPA
I live about three hours south of the
Adirondack Mountains where I take my
kids fishing and hunting and hiking and
camping this is the oldest protected
wilderness on the face of the earth the
Adirondacks has protect been protected
as forever wild since 1888 we had a
right the American people to believe
that generations of American citizens
would be able to enjoy those pristine
Lakes and those average of those boreal
forests for hundreds of years without
without disturbance but today one-fifth
of the lakes in the Adirondacks are
sterilized from acid rain which is
coming from those same 1,100 power
plants and which has destroyed the
forest cover on the high peaks of the
Appalachians from Georgia all the way up
into northern Quebec and this president
has put the brakes on the statutory
requirements that those companies clean
up the sulfur dioxide that is causing
that acid rain and this year directly as
a result of that decision
the EPA announced that for the first
time since the passage of the Clean Air
Act the sulfur dioxide levels in
America's air have risen not just a
little bit dramatically by four percent
I was about a year ago year and a half
ago in May I flew over the coal fields
of the Appalachians where off of West
Virginia and Kentucky where all of this
coal is being mined or most of it and I
saw something that if the American
people could see it there would be a
revolution in this country because we
are cutting down the Appalachian
Mountains we are these historic
mountains that were that where they you
know the wandering places of Daniel
Boone and Davy proc rockin are the
sources of our values our virtues our
characters of people and we are cutting
them down with these massive machines
called drag lines that are 22 stories
high one machine and it cost a half a
billion dollars and practically
dispenses with the need for human labor
which
deed is the point I remember when my
father was fighting strip mining in
Appalachia back in the 60s I remember a
conversation I had with him in which he
said not only are they destroying the
environment but they are permanently
impoverishing these communities because
with they're never going to be able to
find any kind of economic activity on
that barren land those moonscapes that
are created after they leave and they're
doing it to break the unions and that's
exactly what they've done back then
there was a hundred and fourteen
thousand unionized Mine Workers in West
Virginia taking mine taking coal out of
tunnels in the ground today there's only
11 thousand miners left in the state
almost none of them are unionized cuz
strip miners aren't and using these
machines and 2,500 tons of dynamite that
are exploded in West Virginia every day
they blast the tops off the mountains to
get at the coal seams beneath and then
they take all that rock and debris and
rubble and scrape it into the adjacent
river valleys and bury the rivers there
by the time this president leaves office
we have will have flattened an area of
the Appalachians the size of Delaware
they have already buried 1,200 miles of
America's rivers streams and creeks and
this is totally illegal you cannot in
the United States of America
take rock and debris and rubble and dump
it into a waterway without a Clean Water
Act permit and you could never get a
permit to do such a thing
so we sued them Kentuckians for the
Commonwealth
I brought a case and we won in in in
federal court from a crusty old federal
judge Judge Charles Hayden in West
Virginia who said the same thing I just
said this is totally illegal you cannot
do it he enjoyed all mountaintop mining
two days from when we got that's that
decision he after Peabody Coal met with
the White House the White House rewrote
the Clean Water Act and changed the
meaning of one word the word Phil 30
years of statutory interpretation to
eviscerate and tear the heart out of the
Clean Water Act which is the the the the
the to make it legal now to dump rock
and debris and rubble
into aunty waterway in the United States
without a clean water act permit org or
any kind of solid waste and this is what
you know this is the issue that we're
dealing with we're living today in a
science fiction nightmare with my
children the children of millions of
other Americans who have asthmatic kids
are being brought into a world where the
air is too poisonous for them to breathe
because somebody gave money to a
politician and when my children and the
children of most Americans can no longer
engage in the seminal primal activity of
American youth which is to go fishing
with their father and to come home and
eat the fish because somebody gave money
to a politician and a few days after
drop dropping all those lawsuits against
those new dog against those utilities
that were depleting the ozone and
particulates in the air the president
rewrote the Clean Air Act tore the heart
and soul out of it the the most
important provision which was the new
source rule so that those utilities will
never ever have to clean up their ozone
in particulates and this is what we're
dealing with today this is not you know
the White House has done a great job at
that the industry has done a great job
at the polluting industry and they're
indentured servants on Capitol Hill have
done a great job of marginalizing
environmentalists over the past decade
or so as radicals as as tree huggers as
pagans who worship trees and sacrifice
people but there is nothing radical
about clean air and clean water for our
children and we are not protecting
nature
we are not protecting nature for the
sake of the fishes and the birds for
nature's sake we're protecting it
because it's the infrastructure of our
communities the same as we would we have
to invest in telecommunications and road
construction it's the infrastructure of
our communities and if we want to meet
our obligations as a generation and a
civilization and animation which is to
create communities for our children that
provide them with the same opportunities
for dignity and enrichment as the
communities that our parents gave us
we've got to start by protecting our
environmental infrastructure the air we
breathe the water we drink the public
lands and Wildlife which enrich us that
that connect us to our past that provide
context to our communities that are the
source of our values or our characters
of people and you know if you talk to
these people on Capitol Hill who are you
know promoting these kind of rollbacks
and this is what I spend a lot of my
time doing and and you ask them why are
you doing this what they invariably say
as well the time has come in our
nation's history where we have to choose
between economic prosperity on the one
hand and environmental protection on the
other and that is a false choice in 100
percent of the situation's good
environmental policy is identical to
good economic policy if
let's me want to measure the economy and
this is how we ought to be measuring it
based upon how it produces jobs and the
dignity of jobs over the generations and
how it preserves the value of the assets
of our communities if on the other hand
we want to do what they've been urging
us to do one on the white house which is
to treat the planet as if it were a
business and liquidation convert our
natural resources to cash as quickly as
possible have a few years of pollution
based prosperity we can generate an
instantaneous cash flow and the illusion
of a prosperous economy but our children
are gonna pay for our Joyride and
they're gonna pay for it with denuded
landscapes and poor health and huge
cleanup costs that are going to amplify
over time and that they will never be
able to pay environmental injury is
deficit spending it's a way of loading
the cost of our generations prosperity
onto the backs of our children and I
want to say this there is no stronger
advocate for free market capitalism than
myself I believe that the free market is
the most efficient and democratic way to
distribute the goods of the land and
it's the best thing the best thing that
can happen in the environment is if we
had true free-market capitalism in this
country because the the marketplace
encourages efficiency an efficiency
means the elimination of waste and waste
of course is pollution and and it also
encourages us to properly value our
natural resources and it's the
undervaluation of those resources that
cause us to waste them or to you know to
cause environmental injury but in a true
free market economy you can't make
yourself rich without making your
neighbors rich and without enriching
your community but what polluters do is
they make themselves rich by making
everybody else poor they raise standards
of living for themselves by lowering
quality of life for everybody else and
they do that by escaping the discipline
of the free market you show me a
polluter I'll show you a subsidy I'll
show you a fat cap using political clout
to escape the discipline of the free
market and force the public to pay his
production cost that's what all
pollution is it is always always always
a subsidy and you know corporations are
external izing
Jeanne's they're constantly looking for
ways to force somebody else to pay their
production cost it's not because they're
bad for a good thing they're the driving
force behind our art our economy
they shouldn't however be running our
government and that's what the
distinction that we have to make because
if they do they are gonna plunder and
you know this is what and well if you
look at all pollution it's always a
subsidy when those are coal burning it's
a theft of the public trust resources
the assets of the land I live in New
York State and the Constitution in New
York State like the constitution of
California says that the the waterways
and the fisheries belong to the people
of the state they don't belong to the
governor or the corporation's of the
Fisheries Department they belong to the
people everybody has a right to use them
nobody has a right to use them in a way
that will diminish or injure their use
and enjoyment by others this is the law
in all the states it is ancient law goes
back to Roman times the code of
Justinian it's in the Magna Carta it's
natural god-given law Cory what legal
scholars call it's called the public
trust doctrine those things that are not
susceptible to private ownership but by
their nature are part of the community
the Commons the public trust belong to
all the people and nobody can diminish
them nobody has a right for their own a
private interest to privatize them or
diminish them and what all pollution is
it's a way to privatize the comments to
steal from the public to shift costs a
production to the public and you know
when those coal burning power plants put
acid rain into the air and destroy the
lakes and recreational facilities and
the forests you know and I in my
Appalachians and elsewhere when they put
those on a particulates into the air
that causes 18 thousand deaths a year a
million asthma attacks a million lost
work days lost school days when they put
a mercury into the water that steals the
fish I buy a fishing license every year
in New York State for 30 bucks and you
know the Constitution says the fish
belong to me but they don't anymore
they've been privatized by people by
coal burning power plants in the Ohio
Valley they've stolen them from me and
that's what it that's what all pollution
is though they're imposing him
packs on the rest of us that should in a
true free market economy be reflected in
the price of that company's product when
it makes it in the marketplace and all
of the federal environmental laws were
intended to restore free-market
capitalism in our country by forcing
actors in the marketplace to pay the
true costs of bringing their product to
market and what I do I don't even
consider myself you know and
environmentalists anymore I work for
Riverkeeper and I want to stop and
introduce to the local Riverkeepers here
leo Anderson running Leo Bryan who's
that San Francisco Bay keeper and Linda
I she and who's here can you guys both
wave yeah who's the California
Linda's the California coast keeper and
what we do is we enforce the laws we
patrol these water bodies up and down
California and all the other states we
have a hundred and thirty-five river
keepers then we go out catch the
polluters and bring them to justice we
sue them under these federal laws and
you know we're not even we don't even
consider ourselves an environmental
movement anymore
we are free marketeers we go out into
the marketplace we catch the cheaters
the polluters and we say to them we are
going to force you to internalise your
costs the same way that you internalize
your profits because as long as somebody
is cheating the free market it distorts
the whole marketplace and none of us
gets the advantages and the benefits of
the efficiency and the democracy that
the free market otherwise promises our
country and you know we have to
understand in this country but there is
a huge difference between free market
capitalism which democratizes us which
makes us more efficient and prosperous
and the kind of corporate crony
capitalism which has been embraced by
this White House which is as
antithetical to democracy and efficiency
and prosperity in America as it is in
Nigeria corporations don't want free
markets and they don't want democracy
they want profits and the best way for
them to get profits is to use our
campaign finance system which is just a
system of legalized bribery to caption
control of government officials and then
use those public officials to dismantle
the marketplace to give them monopoly
control and to allow them to privatize
the Commons
steal from the public and that's what
you know that's why we have pollution in
this country we have the best
environmental laws if they were enforced
we would not have pollution in this
country but they're not enforced because
of the capacity of industry to corrupt
the political system and what you know
we have to understand is that they from
that from the beginning of our national
history our greatest political leaders
have warned the American people against
the against the excess of corporate
power um and you know Republicans and
Democrats Teddy Roosevelt said this
country would never be destroyed by a
foreign enemy like Osama bin Laden he
wasn't scared of people like that but he
warned that our democratic institutions
would be subverted by malefactors of
great wealth who would destroy them from
within
Dwight Eisenhower another Republican
during his most famous speech ever
warned Americans against the domination
by the military-industrial complex
Abraham Lincoln the greatest Republican
on our history during the height of the
Civil War in 1863 said I have the south
in front of me and I have the bankers
behind me and for my country
I fear the bankers more and Franklin
Roosevelt during World War two
said that the domination of government
by corporate power is the essence of
fascism and Benito Mussolini who had an
insider's view Mussolini had the same
opinion Mussolini said of that that they
complain that fascism should not be
called fascism it should be called
corporatism because it was the merger of
state and corporate power and we have to
understand in our country that communism
is the domination of business by
government and fascism is the domination
of government by business and what we
need to do is walk that narrow trail in
between which is free-market capitalism
and democracy and keep corporate power
at bay with our right hand and keep
government power at bay with our left
and this you know this administration
has done a great job of saying to the
American people that the big threat to
your democracy and communities is
government power and it is ultimately a
threat
mock receipt too much government power
but the much larger threat has always
been corporate power and that's been
recognized and and what we've been
warned again and again and again by the
most visionary political leadership
exactly about that and as I said before
one of the first things that and when I
don't I'm not saying that Dick Cheney is
you know is Heinrich Himmler or Goebbels
and I don't want to be misinterpreted
but but oppression and the erosion of
civil rights are part of a continuum and
we as a people need to be aware of every
stage of that continuum so that we can
guard ourselves against it and you know
what what is what happens when
corporations take control of government
the first thing and the only thing they
do is plunder that is their whole
objective and you know we saw this
during the fascism fascist years in
Europe in the 1920s and 30s when and I
remind people that Hitler and Mussolini
were elected and Hitler was elected by
the most educated people and it to mock
capitalist democracy by the most
educated people on the face of the earth
and when those leaders in and Franco
took power the first thing they did is
put industrialist in charge of the
ministries you know Hitler was a was a
was a right-wing you know Christian
fundamentalist fascist who as it was
absolutely and his group was absolutely
off the radar political radar screen
people considered them a nuts and you
know and I've completely incapable of
ever taking power but they made these
unholy alliances with the industry money
they started pouring money into their
movements and gave them a political
foothold and when they when that took
purchase and they got political power
they pay back industry by putting the
industrialist in charge of all of the
ministries and what did they do they
enriched themselves by on mounting small
Wars taking no-bid contracts and
privatizing the Commons and this
particular government is the government
that we have here in this country today
it is a government of plunder and we all
know how they took a five point six
trillion dollar ten-year surplus Bill
Clinton's surplus and turned it in four
years into a five trillion dollar
deficit a ten point six trillion dollar
shift of wealth one of the largest
shifts of wealth in the history of
humankind from our national treasury
from the people of the United States
from future generations into the pockets
of the wealthiest Americans and me very
rich in their corporate pay masters and
we saw how they plundered the greatest
asset that we had as a nation which was
the respect and love but we enjoyed
among all the people of the earth and I
you know when I was a little boy I
traveled around this country with my
uncle Jack Kennedy with my father I went
to Czechoslovakia in Poland and Greece
and Italy and England and Germany and
France and everywhere that we met went
we were met by vast crowds of people
sometimes hundreds of thousand people
who loved America and just wanted to be
near an American politician and they'd
be and then they looked to us they were
starved for our leadership firm moral
authority I and and they proudly named
their streets after our president so on
Washington and Jefferson and Jackson and
Lincoln and Roosevelt and Kennedy and I
remember the day after 9/11 when the
headline on LeMond which is the biggest
newspaper in France was we are all
Americans now and it took us 230 years a
visionary discipline leadership by
Republican and Democratic presidents to
build up those reservoirs of love and
respect and moral authority around the
globe and in four short years we have
destroyed it all we are today the most
hated nation on earth there are five and
a half billion people all around this
planet that fear and despise the United
States of America and that for me is the
bitterest pill to swallow because I saw
in the faces of those vast crowds when I
was a little boy the potential for
America to exercise leadership for the
good on this planet and you know we are
these wonderful beautiful alliances that
we built after World War Two with the
European nations the
that we had even from the moderate
Islamic nations who look to us still for
moral authority despite their opposition
of their peoples and when there was a
problem with the Israelis the
Palestinians they came to Camp David to
solve it it's unthinkable today and how
but they've plundered that the other
great asset that we have in our country
which is our public lands the sacred
places that make us so proud to be
American the air and water that belongs
to our children and the thing that most
makes us proudest of all which is
American values the values that this
country represented to ourselves and to
the rest of the world the things that we
were proud to pass and made us proud to
call ourselves American and this is a
government this is a government that
represents itself as a government of
values but all of the values that they
claim to embrace are just hollow facades
that conceal the one value that they're
really consider worth fighting for which
is corporate profit taking they say that
they're conservatives but they have torn
the conserve out of conservativism they
say that they like the free market but
they despise free markets but they
really fight for its corporate welfare
capitalism for the poor but socialism
for the rich they say that they like
property rights
and say that they like property rights
but it's only when it's the right of a
polluter to use his property to destroy
his neighbor's property and to destroy
the public property they say that they
like law and order but that the first
one select the corporate law breakers
off the hook
they say that they like local control
and states rights but at all they only
like those things when it means sweeping
away the barriers of the obstacles the
corporate profit taking at the local
level and you know a few months ago when
the Democratic legislature of this state
and my cousin Arnold Schwarzenegger
passed the the toughest automobile
emissions bill in 50 states the because
the people of California were not being
protected by the federal law and what
happened Detroit is now threatening to
sue the state of California and guess
what the federal government is
threatening to just to join Detroit in
that lawsuit against California and I
see that and that's you know that's
that's people who claim to like states
rights and I see this all the time in my
work in West Virginia against the coal
industry when local people pass zoning
ordinances to zone out Peabody Coal and
Massey coal the first thing they hear
from is Ted Olson and that you know and
corporate council saying this is an
interference with effect with National
Commerce and the same thing with the
corporate hog farmers you know down in
in I in in North Carolina when small
farmers and local communities try to
zone them out the federal government
threatens to come in there and crush
them they don't want local control and
they don't want states rights they want
corporate control and they claim to
embrace Christianity but they violated
every one of the manifold mandates of
the Christian faith that we care for the
environment that we act as stewards
toward the earth and then we treat
future generations with responsibility
and you know I said earlier
I said earlier that we're not protecting
the environment for the sake of the
fishes and the birds we're protecting it
for our own sake because we recognize
that nature enriches us it enriches us
economically yes it's the basis of our
economy and we ignore that at our peril
the economy is a wholly owned subsidiary
of the environment but it also enriches
us aesthetically and recreationally and
culturally and historically and
spiritually and human beings of other
appetites besides money and if we don't
feed them we're not going to grow up
we're not going to become the kind of
beings that our Creator intended us to
become when we destroy nature we
diminish ourselves we impoverished our
children we're not fighting to preserve
these ancient force in the Sierra Nevada
that you know now as a result of this
administration are gonna triple logging
in the Sierra Nevada or they you know or
the Pacific Northwest as Rush Limbaugh
would say for the sake of a spotted owl
we're preserving those forests because
we believe the trees have more value to
humanity standing than they would have
if we'd cut them down and I'm not
fighting for the Hudson River
for the sake and the Leo's not fighting
for San Francisco Bay and and Linda's
not fighting for the coast for the sake
of the sturgeon or the salmon or the
striped bass of the herring but before
the anchovies but because I believe my
life will be richer and my children and
my my community will be richer if we
live in a world with large shad in
sturgeon and stripers in the Hudson and
where my children could see the little
fisherman traditional gear fishermen of
the Hudson River that I have been
fighting for their rights and
representing them in courts for 21 years
to preserve that industry that that is
the oldest fishing industry in North
America it is a using the same fishing
methods that were taught by the
Algonquin Indians the original Dutch
settlers of New Amsterdam and many of my
clients who are fishermen are come from
generations of fishermen that go all the
way back to Dutch colonial times and I
want my kids to be able to see those
people those men and women out in the
river and the
small open boats with their ash poles
and gill nets and touched them when they
come to shore to wait out the tides to
repair their nets and in doing that
connect themselves to 350 years of New
York state history and understand that
they're part of something larger than
themselves they're part of a continuum
the part of the community and I want my
children to grow up in a world where
there are no commercial fishermen left
on the Hudson where it's all good and
seafood and Unilever and 400-ton factory
trawlers 100 miles offshore strip mining
the ocean with no interface with
humanity and where there are no family
farmers left in America once all
Smithfield and Cargill and premium
standard farms raising animals you know
factories and treating both their
animals and workers with unspeakable
cruelty and where we've lost touch with
the seasons and the tides and the things
that connect us to the 10,000
generations of human beings that were
here before they were laptops and that
connect us ultimately to God and I don't
believe that nature is God whether we
ought to be worshipping it as God but I
do believe that it's the way that God
communicates to us most forcefully and
God talks to human beings through many
vectors to each other through organized
religion through the great books of
those religions through art and
literature and music and poetry and and
film and architecture but nowhere with
such clarity and force and texture and
detail and grace and joy as through
creation we don't know Michelangelo by
reading his biography we're all by
looking at the ceiling of the Sistine
Chapel and we know our Creator best by
immersing ourselves in creation
particularly in wilderness which is the
undiluted work of the Creator and you
know if you look at every religious
tradition throughout the history of
mankind the central epiphany always
occurs in the wilderness Buddha had to
go into the wilderness to experience
nirvana and self-realization Muhammad
had to go to the wilderness
harren 629 to climb to the summit in the
middle of the night and wrestle an angel
there to have the Koran squeezed out of
him no I most had to go to the
wilderness of Mount Sinai for 40 days
alone on the summit to get the
commandments the Jews had to spend 40
years wandering the wilderness in order
to purge themselves the 400 years of
slavery in Egypt Christ had to go into
the wilderness for 40 days to discover
his divinity for the first time his his
mentor was John the Baptist a man who
lived in a cave in the Jordan Valley and
dressed in the skins of wild beasts and
a dog locusts and the honey of wild bees
and all of Christ's power Bulls were
taken from nature I am the vine you are
the branches the mustard see the little
swallows the scattering the seeds on the
fellow ground the lilies of the field he
called himself a fisherman a farmer a
vineyard keeper a shepherd the reason he
did that and it's the same reason all
the Old Testament prophets and all the
Quranic prophets did the same thing and
all of the Old Testament Talmudic
Quranic prophets all of them came out of
the wilderness and all of them were
shepherds and that daily connection to
nature gave them a special access to the
wisdom of the Almighty but the reason
they use those parables taken from
nature and the Christ did it was because
that's how they stayed in touch with the
people Christ was saying things that
were revolutionary that contradicted
everything they'd heard from the
literate sophisticated people of their
time and they would have dismissed him
as a quack but they were able to confirm
the wisdom of his parables through their
own observations of the fishes and the
birds and they were able to say he's not
telling us something new he's simply
illuminating something very very old
messages that were written into creation
by the Creator at the beginning of time
and we haven't been able to discern or
decipher them until the prophets will
merge themselves in wilderness and learn
the language of the wilderness came back
into the cities and explained to us our
own spirituality our own values and the
source of those things that makes us
human beings that enriches our our
humanity and you know the same is true
in our country our values come from
wilderness in nature Frederick Jackson
Turner our greatest historian said that
American democracy came out of
wilderness from the beginning of our
national history our greatest political
leaders and philosophers and artists and
and cultural leaders and writers have
been telling the American people you
don't have to be ashamed because you
don't have the 1500 years of culture
that they have in Europe because you
have this relationship to the land and
particularly to will this and that's
going to be the source of your values
and virtues and characters are people
and you look at our literature poetry
our art the unifying theme is that
nature has the critical defining element
of American culture this is where our
spiritual values and our national values
come from and yet we have an
administration that considers it that
that tells us it's an administration of
values and it looks at these green
landscapes and sees nothing but money
and you know you just wonder about this
about where how they missed the point of
America and you know I I have I know
Donald Rumsfeld and he's been to my
house my mom's house for lunch I've I've
eaten with him and he's very charming
and I have apple fell on very very nice
you know one to one and if you're not
not robbed if you know I look at him in
his suit and see him on TV
and I know that he's had the best
advantage of our country who's been to
our best schools and been to our
churches and had you know been
inculcated with American values and then
I see these memos that went back and
forth between him and and Roberto
Gonzales and our Attorney General and
and and and Paul Wolfowitz
about how permissible it is how much we
can torture people Americans can torture
people and I I'm astounded I you know
that that these people think that
torture is an American family value and
I say you know how did they miss the
point of America how did they miss all
the point of what makes us proud to be
American and I sometimes I look at this
administration and I say how did they
get all these draft dodgers in one place
and
I'd say
whose chickenhawks you know and I Paul
Wolfowitz then Richard Perle and Dick
Cheney and George Bush and you know all
their pals Tom DeLay Dennis Hastert Rush
Limbaugh and well there's lots of people
who dodge the draft during the Vietnam
War and you know my mainly and I know
many of them and mainly there are people
with moral qualms about the war and
didn't want to fight in the war that
they had written strong moral questions
about but not these people they all like
the war they just wanted somebody else
to fight it and you know the explanation
to me is that they don't know what it is
that makes America worth fighting for
you know the only value that they
understand about our country is
corporate profit taking and nobody would
risk their lives in them in their right
mind for that value but America is worth
fighting for and it's worth dying for
and we all know that and we know what
makes it that way and it's the value and
it's the land it's the things that we're
gonna hand to our children and Teddy
Roosevelt said that they that the only
thing more important than protecting the
environment for a government is to is
protecting itself from dissolution
during times of war that's the only
thing this is the principal role and yet
for this government it's not even on the
radar screen they have completely lost
touch with American values and we know
that America is worth fighting for and
it's time for all of us to get up and
start start fighting for it and because
we're not just fighting for America
today but the values and the chances the
opportunities for democracy and
prosperity that we pass down to our
children and I'll close with a proverb
from the Lakota people that's been
expropriated to some extent by the
environmental movement when they say we
didn't inherit this planet from our
ancestors we borrow it from our children
and I would add to that that if we don't
return to them our children something
that is roughly the equivalent of what
we received that they'll have the right
to ask us some very difficult questions
thank you all very much for having me
here
Goldman